Audit → Earnings Quality

AS SEB Pank, p.68 (line 260–261)
"Internal Control over Financial Reporting (ICFR) refers to the processes that SEB has implemented to ensure the accuracy and reliability of its financial statements. It involves controls that address the prevention or detection of errors and fraud related to financial reporting. These controls typically include policies, procedures, and monitoring mechanisms to provide reasonable assurance regarding the preparation of reliable financial statements. ICFR is a crucial component of corporate governance and is reviewed annually by the Group Internal Control and Compliance Committee (GICC) and the Audit and Compliance Committee (ACC)."

 SAP, p.35 (line 121)

"A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles…; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements."
Expanded with lines 122–125: limits of ICFR, Supervisory Board oversight, auditor responsibility under PCAOB.

Banco de Sabadell, p.8 (line 29)

"The Board Audit and Control Committee oversees the process for preparing and submitting regulated financial and non-financial information and gives recommendations or proposals to the Board of Directors, aimed at safeguarding its integrity, and reports to the Board of Directors, prior to its publication, on the financial information and the directors' report, which include mandatory non-financial information that the Institution must regularly disclose. When necessary and in coordination with the Board Risk Committee, it oversees and assesses the effectiveness of policies and internal risk management and control systems as a whole…"

Banco Santander (SHUSA), p.67 (line 181)

"These boards provide oversight of, and guidance to, executive management in the development of strategy as well as risk, culture and talent management. Specifically, these boards oversee and hold senior management accountable for effectively implementing an enterprise-wide, policy-based governance system… Audit committee: Assists in oversight of the integrity of the consolidated financial statement reporting and fair, lawful, informative, efficient disclosure processes, controls over financial reporting, compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements, Code of Conduct reporting, external auditor qualifications, performance and independence, and the performance of Internal Audit and Credit Risk Review functions."
Expanded with p.66 line 178: "Other core policies set out our practices for ensuring complete, fair and accurate financial reporting…"

Beiersdorf AR 2023, p.206

"Accounting-Related Internal Control System The aim of the accounting-related internal control system is to implement appropriate principles, procedures, and controls to ensure the correctness and reliability of accounting and financial reporting in the financial statements and management report of the Beiersdorf Group and Beiersdorf AG in line with the legal regulations and relevant accounting standards."

Corporate Governance → Earnings Quality

ASN Bank / de Volksbank, p.262 l.4363
"The executive board is responsible for preparing the integrated annual report, including the financial statements… The supervisory board is responsible for overseeing the company's financial reporting process."

Barclays Bank Ireland p.16 (lines 128–132) — BAC + ICFR responsibility

"The BAC carries out several duties delegated to it by the Board, including oversight of financial reporting processes, reviewing the effectiveness of internal controls... Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal controls over financial reporting under the supervision of the principal executive and financial officers, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting."


Carlsberg — Page 38

"…the Supervisory Board and ExCom have overall responsibility for the Carlsberg Group's internal control environment… Monitoring the external financial and sustainability reporting and accounting judgements…"

Bank of Valletta (BOV), p.25 l.236
"Directors' Responsibilities The Directors are required by the Companies Act, 1995… to prepare financial statements in accordance with IFRS… which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Bank…"


Environmental Fines → Market Value of Equity

Adidas — Page 29

"Non-compliance with these regulations could result in fines and restricted market access, particularly in the EU. Additionally, decreased biodiversity may compromise the availability and cost of nature-derived materials such as cotton, leather, and natural rubber…"

 Stellantis — Page 21

"Current and more stringent future or incremental environmental requirements have a significant effect on how we do business and may increase our cost of compliance, result in additional liabilities and negatively affect our operations and results."


Board Strategy → Environmental Reporting

Banca Mediolanum — Page 74

"The Board of Directors is responsible for defining the Group's sustainability strategy, periodically reviewing it… It is also responsible for approving the Code of Ethics, the Mediolanum Group's Sustainability Policy and for approving the Non-Financial Statement (NFS), which forms an integral part of the Group's Consolidated Financial Statements."

Nestlé — Page 77

"The Board has oversight of climate-related matters and monitors progress toward related goals. The Board is responsible for the Company's strategy and organization and provides oversight of its financial and non-financial performance and reporting. The Board approves the Company's ESG/sustainability strategy and approves its CSV and Sustainability Report…"

Banco de Sabadell — Page 28

"…the Board is ultimately responsible for embedding [environmental risk] into the general strategy and for establishing the necessary mechanisms for its review. Its duties range from monitoring environmental risk to approving and reviewing the organisational and functional framework for managing, controlling and reporting on this risk…"

 Carlsberg — Page 54

"The Supervisory Board is responsible for oversight of ESG at Carlsberg, including approval of ESG strategy and targets. It is responsible for annually reviewing overall ESG performance…"

AS SEB Pank — Page 194

"The Board is on a regular basis updated on sustainability matters. The Board conducts a yearly review of policies and instructions. The Board and the executive management are responsible for the preparation of the sustainability report and are during the process involved in reviews of its content. Execution and implementation: The President and Chief Executive Officer (President) is responsible for the execution of the sustainability strategy and implementation of the governance structure set by the Board."


Environmental Reporting → GHG Emissions

Adidas — Page 28

"To identify and assess climate-related IROs, we use our GHG emissions as reported in the annual reports of the past years for Scope 1, 2, and 3. Our own developed tool enables us to quantify, monitor, and be transparent about our carbon footprint along our entire value chain."

Bank of Cyprus, p.92 l.105
"…the Bank's Scope 1, Scope 2 and material non-Financed Scope 3 GHG emissions were calculated for 2021 (baseline), using a widely accepted methodology and bringing the Bank in a position where it can set a feasible roadmap of actionable tasks to reduce its carbon footprint and achieve its decarbonisation goals."

Carlsberg, p.58 l.127
"…we use our GHG inventory, conduct interviews and do desktop research. The GHG inventory helps us estimate the financial impact of carbon pricing and allows us to identify potential locked-in emissions from assets that could slow our transition to a climate-neutral economy…"

Bank of Ireland, p.14 (line 21)

"Science Based Targets Progress Reporting — In 2022, we became the first Irish bank to have our Greenhouse gas (GHG) emission reduction targets validated by SBTi, covering all the Group's operations and 76% of our FY2020 baseline loan book. This includes Scope 1 and 2 emissions present in our operations and Scope 3 emissions in our downstream value chain. Having our GHG targets validated by the global gold standard SBTi reinforces the credibility of our commitment to assisting Ireland in achieving its climate targets. Our SBTs are informing our commercial strategy, including the opportunities to further expand our range of sustainable products and services…"

E.ON, p.12 (line 13)

"In 2021 E.ON adopted an ESG Reporting Manual, which provides detailed descriptions and requirements to instruct the units how to compile and report ESG key performance indicators (KPIs). E.ON then used the manual's climate-related core KPIs to develop a Group-wide carbon management plan that breaks down the Group-wide climate neutral targets to its business units. The purpose is to measure progress toward these targets separately for each of E.ON's business units while also factoring in the characteristics… their strategic ambitions… The carbon management plan took effect in the third quarter of 2022."

GHG Emissions → Market Price of Share

Bank of America Europe DAC TCFD Report 2023, p.46 —

"Consequently, the cost of transition can affect the value of market portfolios of banks and insurance companies… With over $1.2 trillion in committed commercial credit exposure (as of December 31, 2022) spanning nearly every sector of the global economy, it is possible that we could experience credit losses or lose market share and/or revenue associated with climate-related transition risk if our current or future clients do not successfully transition to a lower emissions economy."

Barclays Bank Ireland PLC, p.54 l.385

Equity prices of corporates operating in carbon intensive sectors or sectors that cause negative impacts on nature may decrease due to reduced demand for products or services. Reduction in financial asset values can potentially lead to abrupt price adjustments, resulting in market risk losses where climate risk is not priced into the asset value."

Deutsche Bank, p.55 l.283

"Equity markets contract about 25-30% with additional stress in carbon-price sensitive sectors. Credit spreads widen to levels on par or slightly above peaks during 2020 pandemic and 2022 monetary pivot."

AS SEB Pank (SEB AB Group report), p.56 l.202-203

"Market risk — Transition risk drivers, for instance, a carbon tax, may cause repricing of securities and derivatives for products associated with high carbon content. Severe physical events may lead to sudden repricing and higher volatility in some markets."

GHG Emissions → PBV

AS SEB Pank — Page 199

"Both physical and transition risks can impact our customers' profitability, cash flow, asset values and refinancing possibilities. The transition risks are more imminent because we have customers in industries where a transition is underway… Physical risks arise from the physical effects of global warming and climate change that may for instance impair collateral values."

 DHL p.150 l.748-749

"Climate-related risks can influence the useful lives of assets in different ways: Physical changes in the climate such as the increased frequency and intensity of acute weather events (storms, fires and floods) as well as long-term trends such as rising temperatures can have an impact on assets. Transitory changes in conjunction with decarbonization – including political, legal, technological and market-related changes – can influence the useful lives and the values of our assets… DHL Group plans to reduce its logistics-related greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions to below 29 million metric tons of CO e by the year 2030… additional costs – for emissions trading and sustainable fuels, among other things – were accounted for in the company's projections and thus included in the application of IAS 36 as well as in the impairment considerations for deferred tax assets."

Sustainable Finance → GHG Emissions

Banco BPM DCNF 2023, p.90 (flagship) — "€500 million Social Bond… three Green Bonds in 2022 for the total amount of €1.75 billion… Green Bond Senior Preferred: the bond financed a portfolio of green mortgages originated by the Bank for the purchase of energy-efficient homes… two additional Green Bond issues in 2023 for a total of €1.5 billion… ESG bond issuance volume of €4.55 billion over the three-year period 2021-2024… setting a 'sustainable' emissions target in the three-year period 2023-2026 of €5 billion." — SF proceeds directly fund emission-reducing assets.

ABANCA — Page 357

"ABANCA helps its customers in the transition to an economy with low GHG emissions, supporting the financing of renewable energy and energy efficiency projects… The Entity successfully placed two issues of Senior Preferred green bonds for a total amount of €1,000 million…"

Alpha Bank — Page 34

"…The Bank contributes substantially to the efforts towards the national energy plan, which specifies that by 2030 the total greenhouse gas emissions will be reduced by at least 50%… the Project Finance Unit continued its successful activity, providing financing for new investments in wind farms and solar parks…"

Deutsche Bank — Page 6

"…we support the transition towards sustainable growth and a low-carbon economy by enabling sustainable financing and ESG investments… The initial Transition Plan published last year… explains in detail how the Management Board intends to reduce the financed emissions for carbon-intensive industries…"

E.ON — Page 14

"…the annual reporting for our green bonds — fixed-interest securities whose issuance proceeds are used to fund low-carbon infrastructure and energy-efficiency projects — includes disclosures on the metric tons of CO₂e the projects avoid…"



Sustainable Finance → Market Price of Share

AS SEB Pank — p.21 l.77

"Investment Management As part of our efforts to be a positive force in the sustainability transition, we partner with customers and provide advice, sustainable financing, and investment products. Examples included providing project finance for a solar farm in Sweden and a sustainability linked loan with a social focus supporting the Gottsunda community… We continue our cost and capital efficiency efforts and calibrate our pricing and offering to ensure we deliver value to customers and shareholders."

Bayer — Page 22

"…sustainability and the corresponding ratings remain central to investors. They pay attention and they expect good valuations when they invest in companies… ESG ratings are a foundation for most investors when they make decisions on investments…"

Banco de Sabadell — p.22 l.104

"Sustainable finance and investment This topic makes it possible to identify business and investment opportunities in new markets and to develop a range of new products and services and, by doing so, create a new source of income… This topic allows the Institution to increase the range of sustainable financial products and services, as well as products and services that contribute to a positive social impact through financial inclusion, among other things, thereby offering support to customers, shareholders and investors who have a greater appetite for ESG aspects. Supporting customers in this respect has a positive effect on the Group's reputation…"

Banco de Sabadell — p.23 l.106

"12 Commitments and partnerships in environmental matters The Group's adhesion to and implementation of environmental commitments and partnerships enables it to gain greater knowledge about best practices in the market, improving its management of environmental matters and generating a competitive advantage to set it apart in the marketplace. This topic allows the Group to create value for investors and shareholders through environmental partnerships and by meeting environmental goals, while generating confidence and visibility among customers and society through a more sustainable and transparent business."


Employee Development → Net Sales

Nestlé AR 2023, p.60 — "Our ability to attract, develop and retain a diverse range of skilled people is critical to being competitive and fostering growth. A skilled, agile and engaged workforce plays a pivotal role in the sustained success of the Company, while the loss of key personnel or skills can have disruptive impacts."

Siemens, p.82 l.1163
"More than ever, people are a determining factor for our growth… an empowering culture of growth and transformation, that aims to support both a sustainable business success and our people's employability… Growing our people is a vital answer in tight talent markets."

 Carlsberg, p.5 l.6
"We launched our first global IT capability centre in Gurugram, India, which will serve as a talent engine for growth and help us scale innovation across the Group… Our investments in digital and commercial capabilities will enable us to respond more quickly to changing customer and consumer needs."

